README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2026 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

![Dynamo banner](./docs/images/frontpage-banner.png)

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/ai-dynamo/dynamo)](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/releases/latest)
[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo)
[![Discord](https://dcbadge.limes.pink/api/server/D92uqZRjCZ?style=flat)](https://discord.gg/D92uqZRjCZ) ![Community Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/community_contributors-70%2B-brightgreen) ![Community PRs](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs_merged-130%2B-blue)

| **[Roadmap](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/issues/5506)** | **[Support Matrix](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/blob/main/docs/reference/support-matrix.md)** | **[Docs](https://docs.nvidia.com/dynamo/latest/index.html)** | **[Recipes](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/tree/main/recipes)** | **[Examples](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/tree/main/examples)** | **[Prebuilt Containers](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/ai-dynamo/collections/ai-dynamo)** | **[Design Proposals](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/enhancements)** | **[Blogs](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/tag/nvidia-dynamo)**

# NVIDIA Dynamo

High-throughput, low-latency inference framework designed for serving generative AI and reasoning models in multi-node distributed environments.

## Why Dynamo

<p align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/frontpage-gpu-vertical.png" alt="Multi Node Multi-GPU topology" width="600" />
</p>

Large language models exceed single-GPU capacity. Tensor parallelism spreads layers across GPUs but creates coordination challenges. Dynamo closes this orchestration gap.

Dynamo is inference engine agnostic (supports TRT-LLM, vLLM, SGLang) and provides:

- **Disaggregated Prefill & Decode** – Maximizes GPU throughput with latency/throughput trade-offs
- **Dynamic GPU Scheduling** – Optimizes performance based on fluctuating demand
- **LLM-Aware Request Routing** – Eliminates unnecessary KV cache re-computation
- **Accelerated Data Transfer** – Reduces inference response time using NIXL
- **KV Cache Offloading** – Leverages multiple memory hierarchies for higher throughput

<p align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/frontpage-architecture.png" alt="Dynamo architecture" width="600" />
</p>

Built in Rust for performance and Python for extensibility, Dynamo is fully open-source with an OSS-first development approach.

## Framework Support Matrix

| Feature                                                              | [vLLM](docs/backends/vllm/README.md) | [SGLang](docs/backends/sglang/README.md) | [TensorRT-LLM](docs/backends/trtllm/README.md) |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | :----------: |
| [**Disaggregated Serving**](docs/design_docs/disagg_serving.md)      | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**KV-Aware Routing**](docs/router/kv_cache_routing.md)              | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**SLA-Based Planner**](docs/planner/sla_planner.md)                 | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**KVBM**](docs/kvbm/kvbm_architecture.md)                           | ✅   | 🚧     | ✅           |
| [**Multimodal**](docs/multimodal/index.md)                           | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**Tool Calling**](docs/agents/tool-calling.md)                      | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |

> **[Full Feature Matrix →](feature-matrix.md)** — Detailed compatibility including LoRA, Request Migration, Speculative Decoding, and feature interactions.

## Latest News

- [12/05] [Moonshot AI's Kimi K2 achieves 10x inference speedup with Dynamo on GB200](https://quantumzeitgeist.com/kimi-k2-nvidia-ai-ai-breakthrough/)
- [12/02] [Mistral AI runs Mistral Large 3 with 10x faster inference using Dynamo](https://www.marktechpost.com/2025/12/02/nvidia-and-mistral-ai-bring-10x-faster-inference-for-the-mistral-3-family-on-gb200-nvl72-gpu-systems/)
- [12/01] [InfoQ: NVIDIA Dynamo simplifies Kubernetes deployment for LLM inference](https://www.infoq.com/news/2025/12/nvidia-dynamo-kubernetes/)
- [11/20] [Dell integrates PowerScale with Dynamo's NIXL for 19x faster TTFT](https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/corporate/newsroom/announcements/detailpage.press-releases~usa~2025~11~dell-technologies-and-nvidia-advance-enterprise-ai-innovation.htm)
- [11/20] [WEKA partners with NVIDIA on KV cache storage for Dynamo](https://siliconangle.com/2025/11/20/nvidia-weka-kv-cache-solution-ai-inferencing-sc25/)
- [11/13] [Dynamo Office Hours Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5B692fm6--tgryKu94h2Zb7jTFM3Go4X)
- [10/16] [How Baseten achieved 2x faster inference with NVIDIA Dynamo](https://www.baseten.co/blog/how-baseten-achieved-2x-faster-inference-with-nvidia-dynamo/)

## Get Started

| Path | Use Case | Time | Requirements |
|------|----------|------|--------------|
| [**Local Quick Start**](#local-quick-start) | Test on a single machine | ~5 min | 1 GPU, Ubuntu 24.04 |
| [**Kubernetes Deployment**](#kubernetes-deployment) | Production multi-node clusters | ~30 min | K8s cluster with GPUs |

## Contributing

Want to help shape the future of distributed LLM inference? We welcome contributors at all levels—from doc fixes to new features.

- **[Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** – How to get started
- **[Report a Bug](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/issues/new?template=bug_report.yml)** – Found an issue?
- **[Feature Request](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/issues/new?template=feature_request.yml)** – Have an idea?

# Local Quick Start

The following examples require a few system level packages.
Recommended to use Ubuntu 24.04 with a x86_64 CPU. See [docs/reference/support-matrix.md](docs/reference/support-matrix.md)

## 1. Initial Setup

The Dynamo team recommends the `uv` Python package manager, although any way works. Install uv:

```
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

### Install Python Development Headers

Backend engines require Python development headers for JIT compilation. Install them with:

```bash
sudo apt install python3-dev
```

## 2. Select an Engine

We publish Python wheels specialized for each of our supported engines: vllm, sglang, and trtllm. The examples that follow use SGLang; continue reading for other engines.

```
uv venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
uv pip install pip

# Choose one
uv pip install "ai-dynamo[sglang]"  #replace with [vllm], [trtllm], etc.
```

## 3. Run Dynamo

### Sanity Check (Optional)

Before trying out Dynamo, you can verify your system configuration and dependencies:

```bash
python3 deploy/sanity_check.py
```

This is a quick check for system resources, development tools, LLM frameworks, and Dynamo components.

### Running an LLM API Server

Dynamo provides a simple way to spin up a local set of inference components including:

- **OpenAI Compatible Frontend** – High performance OpenAI compatible http api server written in Rust.
- **Basic and Kv Aware Router** – Route and load balance traffic to a set of workers.
- **Workers** – Set of pre-configured LLM serving engines.

```bash
# Start an OpenAI compatible HTTP server with prompt templating, tokenization, and routing.
# For local dev: --store-kv file avoids etcd (workers and frontend must share a disk)
python3 -m dynamo.frontend --http-port 8000 --store-kv file

# Start the SGLang engine. You can run several of these for the same or different models.
# The frontend will discover them automatically.
python3 -m dynamo.sglang --model-path deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B --store-kv file
```

> **Note:** vLLM workers publish KV cache events by default, which requires NATS. For dependency-free local development with vLLM, add `--kv-events-config '{"enable_kv_cache_events": false}'`. This keeps local prefix caching enabled while disabling event publishing. See [Service Discovery and Messaging](#service-discovery-and-messaging) for details.

#### Send a Request

```bash
curl localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions   -H "Content-Type: application/json"   -d '{
    "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B",
    "messages": [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello, how are you?"
    }
    ],
    "stream":false,
    "max_tokens": 300
  }' | jq
```

Rerun with `curl -N` and change `stream` in the request to `true` to get the responses as soon as the engine issues them.

### What's Next?

- **Scale up**: Deploy on Kubernetes with [Recipes](recipes/)
- **Add features**: Enable [KV-aware routing](docs/router/kv_cache_routing.md), [disaggregated serving](docs/design_docs/disagg_serving.md)
- **Benchmark**: Use [AIPerf](docs/benchmarks/benchmarking.md) to measure performance
- **Try other engines**: [vLLM](docs/backends/vllm/), [SGLang](docs/backends/sglang/), [TensorRT-LLM](docs/backends/trtllm/)

# Kubernetes Deployment

For production deployments on Kubernetes clusters with multiple GPUs.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster with GPU nodes
- [Dynamo Platform installed](docs/kubernetes/README.md)
- HuggingFace token for model downloads

## Production Recipes

Pre-built deployment configurations for common models and topologies:

| Model | Framework | Mode | GPUs | Recipe |
|-------|-----------|------|------|--------|
| Llama-3.1-70B | vLLM | Aggregated | 4x H100 | [View](recipes/vllm/llama-3.1-70b/) |
| DeepSeek-R1 | SGLang | Disaggregated | 8x H200 | [View](recipes/sglang/deepseek-r1/) |
| Qwen3-32B | TensorRT-LLM | Disaggregated | 8x GPU | [View](recipes/trtllm/qwen3-32b/) |

See [recipes/README.md](recipes/README.md) for the full list and deployment instructions.

## Cloud Deployment Guides

- [Amazon EKS](examples/deployments/EKS/)
- [Google GKE](examples/deployments/GKE/)

# Concepts

## Engines

Dynamo is inference engine agnostic. Install the wheel for your chosen engine and run with `python3 -m dynamo.<engine> --help`.

| Engine | Install | Docs | Best For |
|--------|---------|------|----------|
| vLLM | `uv pip install ai-dynamo[vllm]` | [Guide](docs/backends/vllm/) | Broadest feature coverage |
| SGLang | `uv pip install ai-dynamo[sglang]` | [Guide](docs/backends/sglang/) | High-throughput serving |
| TensorRT-LLM | `pip install --pre --extra-index-url https://pypi.nvidia.com ai-dynamo[trtllm]` | [Guide](docs/backends/trtllm/) | Maximum performance |

> **Note:** TensorRT-LLM requires `pip` (not `uv`) due to URL-based dependencies. See the [TRT-LLM guide](docs/backends/trtllm/) for container setup and prerequisites.

Use `CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES` to specify which GPUs to use. Engine-specific options (context length, multi-GPU, etc.) are documented in each backend guide.

## Service Discovery and Messaging

Dynamo uses TCP for inter-component communication. External services are optional for most deployments:

| Deployment | etcd | NATS | Notes |
|------------|------|------|-------|
| **Kubernetes** | ❌ Not required | ❌ Not required | K8s-native discovery; TCP request plane |
| **Local Development** | ❌ Not required | ❌ Not required | Pass `--store-kv file`; vLLM also needs `--kv-events-config '{"enable_kv_cache_events": false}'` |
| **KV-Aware Routing** | — | ✅ Required | Prefix caching enabled by default requires NATS |

For local development without external dependencies, pass `--store-kv file` (avoids etcd) to both the frontend and workers. vLLM users should also pass `--kv-events-config '{"enable_kv_cache_events": false}'` to disable KV event publishing (avoids NATS) while keeping local prefix caching enabled; SGLang and TRT-LLM don't require this flag.

For distributed non-Kubernetes deployments or KV-aware routing:

- [etcd](https://etcd.io/) can be run directly as `./etcd`.
- [nats](https://nats.io/) needs JetStream enabled: `nats-server -js`.

To quickly setup both: `docker compose -f deploy/docker-compose.yml up -d`

# Advanced Topics

## Benchmarking

Dynamo provides comprehensive benchmarking tools:

- **[Benchmarking Guide](docs/benchmarks/benchmarking.md)** – Compare deployment topologies using AIPerf
- **[SLA-Driven Deployments](docs/planner/sla_planner_quickstart.md)** – Optimize deployments to meet SLA requirements

## Frontend OpenAPI Specification

The OpenAI-compatible frontend exposes an OpenAPI 3 spec at `/openapi.json`. To generate without running the server:

```bash
cargo run -p dynamo-llm --bin generate-frontend-openapi
```

This writes to `docs/frontends/openapi.json`.

# Building from Source

For contributors who want to build Dynamo from source rather than installing from PyPI.

## 1. Install Libraries

**Ubuntu:**

```
sudo apt install -y build-essential libhwloc-dev libudev-dev pkg-config libclang-dev protobuf-compiler python3-dev cmake
```

**macOS:**

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

```
# if brew is not installed on your system, install it
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)

```
brew install cmake protobuf

## Check that Metal is accessible
xcrun -sdk macosx metal
```

If Metal is accessible, you should see an error like `metal: error: no input files`, which confirms it is installed correctly.

## 2. Install Rust

```
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

## 3. Create a Python Virtual Environment

Follow the instructions in [uv installation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/#installation) guide to install uv if you don't have `uv` installed. Once uv is installed, create a virtual environment and activate it.

- Install uv

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

- Create a virtual environment

```bash
uv venv dynamo
source dynamo/bin/activate
```

## 4. Install Build Tools

```
uv pip install pip maturin
```

[Maturin](https://github.com/PyO3/maturin) is the Rust<->Python bindings build tool.

## 5. Build the Rust Bindings

```
cd lib/bindings/python
maturin develop --uv
```

## 6. Install the Wheel

```
cd $PROJECT_ROOT
uv pip install -e .
```

You should now be able to run `python3 -m dynamo.frontend`.

For local development, pass `--store-kv file` to avoid external dependencies (see Service Discovery and Messaging section).

Set the environment variable `DYN_LOG` to adjust the logging level; for example, `export DYN_LOG=debug`. It has the same syntax as `RUST_LOG`.

If you use vscode or cursor, we have a .devcontainer folder built on [Microsofts Extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers). For instructions see the [ReadMe](.devcontainer/README.md) for more details.

<!-- Reference links for Feature Compatibility Matrix -->
[disagg]: docs/design_docs/disagg_serving.md
[kv-routing]: docs/router/kv_cache_routing.md
[planner]: docs/planner/sla_planner.md
[kvbm]: docs/kvbm/kvbm_architecture.md
[mm]: examples/multimodal/
[migration]: docs/fault_tolerance/request_migration.md
[lora]: examples/backends/vllm/deploy/lora/README.md
[tools]: docs/agents/tool-calling.md

Commit message:

feat: GPU Memory Service (#5286)
Signed-off-by: Schwinn Saereesitthipitak <17022745+galletas1712@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright (c) 2024-2026 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

![Dynamo banner](./docs/images/frontpage-banner.png)

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/ai-dynamo/dynamo)](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/releases/latest)
[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo)
[![Discord](https://dcbadge.limes.pink/api/server/D92uqZRjCZ?style=flat)](https://discord.gg/D92uqZRjCZ) ![Community Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/community_contributors-70%2B-brightgreen) ![Community PRs](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs_merged-130%2B-blue)

| **[Roadmap](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/issues/5506)** | **[Support Matrix](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/blob/main/docs/reference/support-matrix.md)** | **[Docs](https://docs.nvidia.com/dynamo/latest/index.html)** | **[Recipes](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/tree/main/recipes)** | **[Examples](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/tree/main/examples)** | **[Prebuilt Containers](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/ai-dynamo/collections/ai-dynamo)** | **[Design Proposals](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/enhancements)** | **[Blogs](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/tag/nvidia-dynamo)**

# NVIDIA Dynamo

High-throughput, low-latency inference framework designed for serving generative AI and reasoning models in multi-node distributed environments.

## Why Dynamo

<p align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/frontpage-gpu-vertical.png" alt="Multi Node Multi-GPU topology" width="600" />
</p>

Large language models exceed single-GPU capacity. Tensor parallelism spreads layers across GPUs but creates coordination challenges. Dynamo closes this orchestration gap.

Dynamo is inference engine agnostic (supports TRT-LLM, vLLM, SGLang) and provides:

- **Disaggregated Prefill & Decode** – Maximizes GPU throughput with latency/throughput trade-offs
- **Dynamic GPU Scheduling** – Optimizes performance based on fluctuating demand
- **LLM-Aware Request Routing** – Eliminates unnecessary KV cache re-computation
- **Accelerated Data Transfer** – Reduces inference response time using NIXL
- **KV Cache Offloading** – Leverages multiple memory hierarchies for higher throughput

<p align="center">
  <img src="./docs/images/frontpage-architecture.png" alt="Dynamo architecture" width="600" />
</p>

Built in Rust for performance and Python for extensibility, Dynamo is fully open-source with an OSS-first development approach.

## Framework Support Matrix

| Feature                                                              | [vLLM](docs/backends/vllm/README.md) | [SGLang](docs/backends/sglang/README.md) | [TensorRT-LLM](docs/backends/trtllm/README.md) |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--: | :----: | :----------: |
| [**Disaggregated Serving**](docs/design_docs/disagg_serving.md)      | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**KV-Aware Routing**](docs/router/kv_cache_routing.md)              | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**SLA-Based Planner**](docs/planner/sla_planner.md)                 | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**KVBM**](docs/kvbm/kvbm_architecture.md)                           | ✅   | 🚧     | ✅           |
| [**Multimodal**](docs/multimodal/index.md)                           | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |
| [**Tool Calling**](docs/agents/tool-calling.md)                      | ✅   | ✅     | ✅           |

> **[Full Feature Matrix →](feature-matrix.md)** — Detailed compatibility including LoRA, Request Migration, Speculative Decoding, and feature interactions.

## Latest News

- [12/05] [Moonshot AI's Kimi K2 achieves 10x inference speedup with Dynamo on GB200](https://quantumzeitgeist.com/kimi-k2-nvidia-ai-ai-breakthrough/)
- [12/02] [Mistral AI runs Mistral Large 3 with 10x faster inference using Dynamo](https://www.marktechpost.com/2025/12/02/nvidia-and-mistral-ai-bring-10x-faster-inference-for-the-mistral-3-family-on-gb200-nvl72-gpu-systems/)
- [12/01] [InfoQ: NVIDIA Dynamo simplifies Kubernetes deployment for LLM inference](https://www.infoq.com/news/2025/12/nvidia-dynamo-kubernetes/)
- [11/20] [Dell integrates PowerScale with Dynamo's NIXL for 19x faster TTFT](https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/corporate/newsroom/announcements/detailpage.press-releases~usa~2025~11~dell-technologies-and-nvidia-advance-enterprise-ai-innovation.htm)
- [11/20] [WEKA partners with NVIDIA on KV cache storage for Dynamo](https://siliconangle.com/2025/11/20/nvidia-weka-kv-cache-solution-ai-inferencing-sc25/)
- [11/13] [Dynamo Office Hours Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5B692fm6--tgryKu94h2Zb7jTFM3Go4X)
- [10/16] [How Baseten achieved 2x faster inference with NVIDIA Dynamo](https://www.baseten.co/blog/how-baseten-achieved-2x-faster-inference-with-nvidia-dynamo/)

## Get Started

| Path | Use Case | Time | Requirements |
|------|----------|------|--------------|
| [**Local Quick Start**](#local-quick-start) | Test on a single machine | ~5 min | 1 GPU, Ubuntu 24.04 |
| [**Kubernetes Deployment**](#kubernetes-deployment) | Production multi-node clusters | ~30 min | K8s cluster with GPUs |

## Contributing

Want to help shape the future of distributed LLM inference? We welcome contributors at all levels—from doc fixes to new features.

- **[Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** – How to get started
- **[Report a Bug](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/issues/new?template=bug_report.yml)** – Found an issue?
- **[Feature Request](https://github.com/ai-dynamo/dynamo/issues/new?template=feature_request.yml)** – Have an idea?

# Local Quick Start

The following examples require a few system level packages.
Recommended to use Ubuntu 24.04 with a x86_64 CPU. See [docs/reference/support-matrix.md](docs/reference/support-matrix.md)

## 1. Initial Setup

The Dynamo team recommends the `uv` Python package manager, although any way works. Install uv:

```
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

### Install Python Development Headers

Backend engines require Python development headers for JIT compilation. Install them with:

```bash
sudo apt install python3-dev
```

## 2. Select an Engine

We publish Python wheels specialized for each of our supported engines: vllm, sglang, and trtllm. The examples that follow use SGLang; continue reading for other engines.

```
uv venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
uv pip install pip

# Choose one
uv pip install "ai-dynamo[sglang]"  #replace with [vllm], [trtllm], etc.
```

## 3. Run Dynamo

### Sanity Check (Optional)

Before trying out Dynamo, you can verify your system configuration and dependencies:

```bash
python3 deploy/sanity_check.py
```

This is a quick check for system resources, development tools, LLM frameworks, and Dynamo components.

### Running an LLM API Server

Dynamo provides a simple way to spin up a local set of inference components including:

- **OpenAI Compatible Frontend** – High performance OpenAI compatible http api server written in Rust.
- **Basic and Kv Aware Router** – Route and load balance traffic to a set of workers.
- **Workers** – Set of pre-configured LLM serving engines.

```bash
# Start an OpenAI compatible HTTP server with prompt templating, tokenization, and routing.
# For local dev: --store-kv file avoids etcd (workers and frontend must share a disk)
python3 -m dynamo.frontend --http-port 8000 --store-kv file

# Start the SGLang engine. You can run several of these for the same or different models.
# The frontend will discover them automatically.
python3 -m dynamo.sglang --model-path deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B --store-kv file
```

> **Note:** vLLM workers publish KV cache events by default, which requires NATS. For dependency-free local development with vLLM, add `--kv-events-config '{"enable_kv_cache_events": false}'`. This keeps local prefix caching enabled while disabling event publishing. See [Service Discovery and Messaging](#service-discovery-and-messaging) for details.

#### Send a Request

```bash
curl localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions   -H "Content-Type: application/json"   -d '{
    "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-8B",
    "messages": [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello, how are you?"
    }
    ],
    "stream":false,
    "max_tokens": 300
  }' | jq
```

Rerun with `curl -N` and change `stream` in the request to `true` to get the responses as soon as the engine issues them.

### What's Next?

- **Scale up**: Deploy on Kubernetes with [Recipes](recipes/)
- **Add features**: Enable [KV-aware routing](docs/router/kv_cache_routing.md), [disaggregated serving](docs/design_docs/disagg_serving.md)
- **Benchmark**: Use [AIPerf](docs/benchmarks/benchmarking.md) to measure performance
- **Try other engines**: [vLLM](docs/backends/vllm/), [SGLang](docs/backends/sglang/), [TensorRT-LLM](docs/backends/trtllm/)

# Kubernetes Deployment

For production deployments on Kubernetes clusters with multiple GPUs.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster with GPU nodes
- [Dynamo Platform installed](docs/kubernetes/README.md)
- HuggingFace token for model downloads

## Production Recipes

Pre-built deployment configurations for common models and topologies:

| Model | Framework | Mode | GPUs | Recipe |
|-------|-----------|------|------|--------|
| Llama-3.1-70B | vLLM | Aggregated | 4x H100 | [View](recipes/vllm/llama-3.1-70b/) |
| DeepSeek-R1 | SGLang | Disaggregated | 8x H200 | [View](recipes/sglang/deepseek-r1/) |
| Qwen3-32B | TensorRT-LLM | Disaggregated | 8x GPU | [View](recipes/trtllm/qwen3-32b/) |

See [recipes/README.md](recipes/README.md) for the full list and deployment instructions.

## Cloud Deployment Guides

- [Amazon EKS](examples/deployments/EKS/)
- [Google GKE](examples/deployments/GKE/)

# Concepts

## Engines

Dynamo is inference engine agnostic. Install the wheel for your chosen engine and run with `python3 -m dynamo.<engine> --help`.

| Engine | Install | Docs | Best For |
|--------|---------|------|----------|
| vLLM | `uv pip install ai-dynamo[vllm]` | [Guide](docs/backends/vllm/) | Broadest feature coverage |
| SGLang | `uv pip install ai-dynamo[sglang]` | [Guide](docs/backends/sglang/) | High-throughput serving |
| TensorRT-LLM | `pip install --pre --extra-index-url https://pypi.nvidia.com ai-dynamo[trtllm]` | [Guide](docs/backends/trtllm/) | Maximum performance |

> **Note:** TensorRT-LLM requires `pip` (not `uv`) due to URL-based dependencies. See the [TRT-LLM guide](docs/backends/trtllm/) for container setup and prerequisites.

Use `CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES` to specify which GPUs to use. Engine-specific options (context length, multi-GPU, etc.) are documented in each backend guide.

## Service Discovery and Messaging

Dynamo uses TCP for inter-component communication. External services are optional for most deployments:

| Deployment | etcd | NATS | Notes |
|------------|------|------|-------|
| **Kubernetes** | ❌ Not required | ❌ Not required | K8s-native discovery; TCP request plane |
| **Local Development** | ❌ Not required | ❌ Not required | Pass `--store-kv file`; vLLM also needs `--kv-events-config '{"enable_kv_cache_events": false}'` |
| **KV-Aware Routing** | — | ✅ Required | Prefix caching enabled by default requires NATS |

For local development without external dependencies, pass `--store-kv file` (avoids etcd) to both the frontend and workers. vLLM users should also pass `--kv-events-config '{"enable_kv_cache_events": false}'` to disable KV event publishing (avoids NATS) while keeping local prefix caching enabled; SGLang and TRT-LLM don't require this flag.

For distributed non-Kubernetes deployments or KV-aware routing:

- [etcd](https://etcd.io/) can be run directly as `./etcd`.
- [nats](https://nats.io/) needs JetStream enabled: `nats-server -js`.

To quickly setup both: `docker compose -f deploy/docker-compose.yml up -d`

# Advanced Topics

## Benchmarking

Dynamo provides comprehensive benchmarking tools:

- **[Benchmarking Guide](docs/benchmarks/benchmarking.md)** – Compare deployment topologies using AIPerf
- **[SLA-Driven Deployments](docs/planner/sla_planner_quickstart.md)** – Optimize deployments to meet SLA requirements

## Frontend OpenAPI Specification

The OpenAI-compatible frontend exposes an OpenAPI 3 spec at `/openapi.json`. To generate without running the server:

```bash
cargo run -p dynamo-llm --bin generate-frontend-openapi
```

This writes to `docs/frontends/openapi.json`.

# Building from Source

For contributors who want to build Dynamo from source rather than installing from PyPI.

## 1. Install Libraries

**Ubuntu:**

```
sudo apt install -y build-essential libhwloc-dev libudev-dev pkg-config libclang-dev protobuf-compiler python3-dev cmake
```

**macOS:**

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)

```
# if brew is not installed on your system, install it
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

- [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/)

```
brew install cmake protobuf

## Check that Metal is accessible
xcrun -sdk macosx metal
```

If Metal is accessible, you should see an error like `metal: error: no input files`, which confirms it is installed correctly.

## 2. Install Rust

```
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

## 3. Create a Python Virtual Environment

Follow the instructions in [uv installation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/#installation) guide to install uv if you don't have `uv` installed. Once uv is installed, create a virtual environment and activate it.

- Install uv

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

- Create a virtual environment

```bash
uv venv dynamo
source dynamo/bin/activate
```

## 4. Install Build Tools

```
uv pip install pip maturin
```

[Maturin](https://github.com/PyO3/maturin) is the Rust<->Python bindings build tool.

## 5. Build the Rust Bindings

```
cd lib/bindings/python
maturin develop --uv
```

## 6. Install GPU Memory Service

The GPU Memory Service is a Python package with a C++ extension. It requires only Python development headers and a C++ compiler (g++).

```bash
cd $PROJECT_ROOT
uv pip install -e lib/gpu_memory_service
```

## 7. Install the Wheel

```
cd $PROJECT_ROOT
uv pip install -e .
```

You should now be able to run `python3 -m dynamo.frontend`.

For local development, pass `--store-kv file` to avoid external dependencies (see Service Discovery and Messaging section).

Set the environment variable `DYN_LOG` to adjust the logging level; for example, `export DYN_LOG=debug`. It has the same syntax as `RUST_LOG`.

If you use vscode or cursor, we have a .devcontainer folder built on [Microsofts Extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers). For instructions see the [ReadMe](.devcontainer/README.md) for more details.

<!-- Reference links for Feature Compatibility Matrix -->
[disagg]: docs/design_docs/disagg_serving.md
[kv-routing]: docs/router/kv_cache_routing.md
[planner]: docs/planner/sla_planner.md
[kvbm]: docs/kvbm/kvbm_architecture.md
[mm]: examples/multimodal/
[migration]: docs/fault_tolerance/request_migration.md
[lora]: examples/backends/vllm/deploy/lora/README.md
[tools]: docs/agents/tool-calling.md
